README.md, before:


  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Use of the package, depending if you are a user or a
    developer](#use-of-the-package-depending-if-you-are-a-user-or-a-developer)
      - [Use {lozen} as user](#use-lozen-as-user)
      - [Use {lozen} as developer](#use-lozen-as-developer)
      - [More details about how to create tokens and define environment
        variables](#more-details-about-how-to-create-tokens-and-define-environment-variables)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# {lozen} <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" alt="" width="120" />

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![coverage
report](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/lozen/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=OSIC3VV5NG)](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/lozen)
<!-- badges: end -->

The objective of {lozen} is to centralize project management tools for
Devs and Lead Devs.

To use the package, as user or as developer, you will have to define
some tokens and environment variables. Go to the dedicated section below
“Use {lozen} as user” or “Use {lozen} as developer”.

# Installation

``` r
remotes::install_github(
  repo = "ThinkR-open/lozen",
  ref = "main",
  build_vignettes = TRUE,
  upgrade = "never"
)
```

# Use of the package, depending if you are a user or a developer

## Use {lozen} as user

You need to use this kind of `.Renviron` file:

    GITLAB_TOKEN="my.token.generated.in.gitlab"
    GITLAB_URL="https://my.gitlab.url"
    GITHUB_PAT="my.personal.access.token.generated.in.github"
    CONNECT_URL="https://my.connect.url"
    CONNECT_NAME="my.connect.server.name"
    CONNECT_USER="my.connect.username"
    CONNECT_TOKEN="my.api.key.generated.in.connect"

You can use the command line `usethis::edit_r_environ()` to open a
`.Renviron` file. Save the values inside as mentioned above, and restart
your R session.

Depending on your needs, you will have to set all of them (GitLab,
GitHub and Posit Connect), or just some of them. See the details
sections below to have more information about how to create them.

If you wish to use function related to Posit Connect, you must set your
Connect account manually within Rstudio.

## Use {lozen} as developer

**Note that unit tests will create and publish some elements on your own
instances (GitLab, GitHub, Posit Connect).** These objects will be
automatically deleted at the end of the tests.

You need to use this kind of `.Renviron` file:

    GITLAB_TOKEN="my.token.generated.in.gitlab"
    GITLAB_URL="https://my.gitlab.url"
    ALLOW_CI_TESTS_ON_GITLAB="TRUE"
    GITHUB_PAT="my.personal.access.token.generated.in.github"
    CONNECT_URL="https://my.connect.url"
    CONNECT_NAME="my.connect.server.name"
    CONNECT_USER="my.connect.username"
    CONNECT_TOKEN="my.api.key.generated.in.connect"
    ALLOW_TESTS_TO_DEPLOY_ON_CONNECT="TRUE"

You can use the command line `usethis::edit_r_environ()` to open a
`.Renviron` file. Save the values inside as mentioned above, and restart
your R session.

You will have to set all of them (GitLab, GitHub and Posit Connect), to
be sure all unit tests can be launched. See the details sections below
to have more information about how to create them.

Please note that unit tests using `{gert}` might show a prompt asking
for your gitlab username and password. For the latter, you must provide
your gitlab password, not a token.

For tests deploying content on Posit Connect, you must set your Connect
account manually within Rstudio and must have deployed manually a
content at least once before being able to run the tests.

## More details about how to create tokens and define environment variables

### GitLab

  - `GITLAB_TOKEN`: Create a personal access token on GitLab, with the
    rights: “read\_repository”, “write\_repository”, “api”, “read\_api”
  - `GITLAB_URL`: url of your gitlab instance - if this is `gitlab.com`,
    you do not have to specify it, because this is the default value
    used by the package

### GitHub

  - `GITHUB_PAT`: Create a personal access token on GitHub - the
    following scopes must be granted with your token “admin:org”,
    “delete\_repo”, “project”, “repo”, “user”, “workflow.”

### Posit Connect

  - `CONNECT_URL`: Url of your Posit Connect
  - `CONNECT_NAME`: Name of your Posit Connect server - to know this
    information, please use `rsconnect::accounts()$server`. if this is
    `connect`, you do not have to specify it, because this is the
    default value defined by Posit Connect once a first connection has
    been made to the server
  - `CONNECT_USER`: Your username in your Posit Connect
  - `CONNECT_TOKEN`: Personal access token of your Posit Connect -
    please follow the [official
    documentation](https://docs.posit.co/connect/user/api-keys/) to
    create it

# Documentation

Access to the pkgdown: <https://thinkr-open.github.io/lozen/>

### Vignettes/articles

*Documentation dedicated to the users (Devs, Lead Devs)*

  - `aa - Create a new project with GitLab`: Create a new R project for
    a mission - managed on GitLab, with everything needed (the R project
    skeleton, the init of git, the init of the project on GitLab, etc.)
  - `ab - Create a new project with GitHub`: Create a new R project for
    a mission - managed on GitHub, with everything needed (the R project
    skeleton, the init of git, the init of the project on GitLab, etc.)
  - `ac - Create Weekly with GitHub or GitLab`: Generate a weekly/daily
    for a mission
  - `ad - Build a pkgdown with reports`: Build a pkgdown with coverage
    and test reports
  - `ae - Deploy a {golem} app on Posit Connect and its pkgdown on
    Gitlab Pages through GitLab CI/CD`: Publish your {golem}-related
    work
  - `af - Deploy a pkgdown on Posit Connect and Gitlab Pages through
    GitLab CI/CD`: Publish the pkgdown of your R package on Gitlab Pages
    and Posit Connect

*Documentation dedicated to the team who participates to the
develompment of {lozen}*

  - `ba - Create the skeleton of the R project (package, app, book)`
  - `bb - Manage git tools (branches, commits, etc.)`
  - `bc - Manage GitLab projects`
  - `bd - Manage GitHub Projects`
  - `be - Initilialise GitLab CI`
  - `bf - Create special issues`
  - `bg - Deploy on Connect`
  - `bi - Move from GitLab to GitHub`
  - `cb - Tools miscellaneous`

Commit message:

doc: Update README
tags: doc

Why?

-

What?

-

Issues

issue #37

README.md, after:


  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Use of the package, depending if you are a user or a
    developer](#use-of-the-package-depending-if-you-are-a-user-or-a-developer)
      - [Use {lozen} as user](#use-lozen-as-user)
      - [Use {lozen} as developer](#use-lozen-as-developer)
      - [More details about how to create tokens and define environment
        variables](#more-details-about-how-to-create-tokens-and-define-environment-variables)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# {lozen} <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" alt="" width="120" />

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![coverage
report](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ThinkR-open/lozen/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/lozen/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=OSIC3VV5NG)](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/lozen)
<!-- badges: end -->

The objective of {lozen} is to centralize project management tools for
Devs and Lead Devs.

To use the package, as user or as developer, you will have to define
some tokens and environment variables. Go to the dedicated section below
“Use {lozen} as user” or “Use {lozen} as developer”.

# Installation

``` r
remotes::install_github(
  repo = "ThinkR-open/lozen",
  ref = "main",
  build_vignettes = TRUE,
  upgrade = "never"
)
```

# Use of the package, depending if you are a user or a developer

## Use {lozen} as user

You need to use this kind of `.Renviron` file:

    GITLAB_TOKEN="my.token.generated.in.gitlab"
    GITLAB_URL="https://my.gitlab.url"
    GITHUB_PAT="my.personal.access.token.generated.in.github"
    CONNECT_URL="https://my.connect.url"
    CONNECT_NAME="my.connect.server.name"
    CONNECT_USER="my.connect.username"
    CONNECT_TOKEN="my.api.key.generated.in.connect"

You can use the command line `usethis::edit_r_environ()` to open a
`.Renviron` file. Save the values inside as mentioned above, and restart
your R session.

Depending on your needs, you will have to set all of them (GitLab,
GitHub and Posit Connect), or just some of them. See the details
sections below to have more information about how to create them.

If you wish to use function related to Posit Connect, you must set your
Connect account manually within Rstudio.

## Use {lozen} as developer

**Note that unit tests will create and publish some elements on your own
instances (GitLab, GitHub, Posit Connect).** These objects will be
automatically deleted at the end of the tests.

You need to use this kind of `.Renviron` file:

    GITLAB_TOKEN="my.token.generated.in.gitlab"
    GITLAB_URL="https://my.gitlab.url"
    ALLOW_CI_TESTS_ON_GITLAB="TRUE"
    GITHUB_PAT="my.personal.access.token.generated.in.github"
    CONNECT_URL="https://my.connect.url"
    CONNECT_NAME="my.connect.server.name"
    CONNECT_USER="my.connect.username"
    CONNECT_TOKEN="my.api.key.generated.in.connect"
    ALLOW_TESTS_TO_DEPLOY_ON_CONNECT="TRUE"

You can use the command line `usethis::edit_r_environ()` to open a
`.Renviron` file. Save the values inside as mentioned above, and restart
your R session.

You will have to set all of them (GitLab, GitHub and Posit Connect), to
be sure all unit tests can be launched. See the details sections below
to have more information about how to create them.

Please note that unit tests using `{gert}` might show a prompt asking
for your gitlab username and password. For the latter, you must provide
your gitlab password, not a token.

For tests deploying content on Posit Connect, you must set your Connect
account manually within Rstudio and must have deployed manually a
content at least once before being able to run the tests.

## More details about how to create tokens and define environment variables

### GitLab

  - `GITLAB_TOKEN`: Create a personal access token on GitLab, with the
    rights: “read\_repository”, “write\_repository”, “api”, “read\_api”
  - `GITLAB_URL`: url of your gitlab instance - if this is `gitlab.com`,
    you do not have to specify it, because this is the default value
    used by the package

### GitHub

  - `GITHUB_PAT`: Create a personal access token on GitHub - the
    following scopes must be granted with your token “admin:org”,
    “delete\_repo”, “project”, “repo”, “user”, “workflow.”

### Posit Connect

  - `CONNECT_URL`: Url of your Posit Connect
  - `CONNECT_NAME`: Name of your Posit Connect server - to know this
    information, please use `rsconnect::accounts()$server`. if this is
    `connect`, you do not have to specify it, because this is the
    default value defined by Posit Connect once a first connection has
    been made to the server
  - `CONNECT_USER`: Your username in your Posit Connect
  - `CONNECT_TOKEN`: Personal access token of your Posit Connect -
    please follow the [official
    documentation](https://docs.posit.co/connect/user/api-keys/) to
    create it

# Documentation

Access to the pkgdown: <https://thinkr-open.github.io/lozen/>

### Vignettes/articles

*Documentation dedicated to the users (Devs, Lead Devs)*

  - `aa - Create a new project with GitLab`: Create a new R project for
    a mission - managed on GitLab, with everything needed (the R project
    skeleton, the init of git, the init of the project on GitLab, etc.)
  - `ab - Create a new project with GitHub`: Create a new R project for
    a mission - managed on GitHub, with everything needed (the R project
    skeleton, the init of git, the init of the project on GitLab, etc.)
    (**WIP**)
  - `ac - Create the skeleton of the R project (package, app, book)`:
    Add the skeleton of a R product in your project
  - `ad - Set up continuous integration and continuous deployment for
    Gitlab CI/CD`: Set up the publication of your product
  - `ae - Create Weekly with GitHub or GitLab`: Generate a weekly/daily
    for a mission
  - `af - Build a pkgdown with reports`: Build a pkgdown with coverage
    and test reports
  - `ba - Manage forge board and wiki`: Create and manage your
    communication tools on Gitlab
  - `bb - Manage git tools (branches, commits, etc.)`: Manage your
    repository on Gitlab
